Your kids, the Do-Re-Mi song from the Sound
of Music, your kids will know Do-Re-Mi, because
it's in that song. They will have no reference
for them, like that actually means something,
but they'll be like "oh yeah I've heard of
Do-Re-Mi". "Do, a deer, a female deer, Re..."
and this will bring on some sort of Julie
Andrews sing-a-long. Which makes all people
involved happy, but it's a fantastic way.
Thank heavens for that movie because it's
the first introduction to these words; these
crazy like syllable words that really have
no meaning if you have no reference for them.
So, we were talking about something before
and we talked about doing Do and Re, add Mi,
Do-Re-Mi, in all sorts of places. I would
avoid the black keys at this point, see how
much you can get done without the black keys.
But it's o.k. to put that in too; even though
it may cause problems sort of intuitively
for them, they probably won't comment on that
problem. They'll probably just accept it as
truth. The next place to move is to sing Do
and Re and Mi on the staff. So again you're
teaching relationships; just like everything,
it's about how things are connected. So, you're
teaching that if this is Do, this is Re. We've
already taught that on here, that's to make
sense to them. Now here's the visual representation
of that, if this is Do, this is Re. Same thing
on here, although I didn't draw the notes
we were working with earlier. If the G is
Do; and the G is on the G line because the
G clef loves G and makes a hug around G, line
two. Remember all of that? It's o.k. to say
it again, it's o.k. to say it a gazillion
times, it's o.k. to use the same wording for
it. Because that's what's re-enforcing it
into their head, that's what's putting it
in there locked solid. It's never going to
leave if you use the same words every time
you discuss it that will click. That if this
is G, if this G is Do, then the A is Re, start
with Mi then. If this is Do, the A is Re,
this is Mi. It should make sense here and
it should make sense here. Then you can use
your materials; whatever you have, to do simple,
simple melodies with just Do, Re and Mi on
here and see if they can follow playing it.
This goes back to singing it, you can sing
Do-Re-Mi-Re-Do. Can they play it? You're going
to think, no, but they probably can, your
kids are smarter than you think they are.